SY-55 VOICE EDITOR
-------------------------------

This software is intended to edit the Yamaha SY55 synthesizer voice and drum parameters.
It should work with the TG55, missing some of the features that belongs only to the TG55 as the multiple outputs, but it has been untested.
The multi mode, sequencer and utility controls cannot be accesed by this software.
There is no support for data nor waveform cards, since I don't have any of them to test.

Platform: The software is multi platform, but it has only been tested on intel mac.

--- USING THE SOFTWARE --- 

The software works in two different modes: Voice and drum set, having each of them different parameters to edit.
In both modes, the main window is divided in two parts; the upper part shows the parameters that are common to the voices with 1,2 or 4 elements and drum sets, 
however, not all the controllers are available in the drum set mode.

The lower area is divided by tabs containing the elements, drums and controllers used by the current patch.
* The tabs will change depending on the elements number and the patch mode.
Each element tab contain the same parameters and is divided in 4 sections vertically: 
1- Wave and volume, including element on/off, pan and effect balance.
2- Pitch parameters.
3- Filters.
4- This window is also divided in two sections: Note and Vel limit (left), and LFO (right)

* For more info. about the synthesizer parameters, please consult the SY55 manual.

It is possible to copy / paste patchs and elements, as well as saving and loading patches in your computer.

When the SY55 is connected, when a parameter is edited on the screen, it will change in the SY55 immediately, so you can hear the changes on real time.
The computer keyboard can be used as a controller as follows: 
'Z','S','X','D','C','V','G','B','H','N','J','M': Notes C to B
'Q','2','W','3','E','R','5','T','6','Y','7','U': Notes C to B + 1 octave
'I','9','O','0','P','[','=',']': Notes C to G + 2 octaves
'+': octave up
'-': octave dowm
* The keyboard control is polyphonic and sends note on / note off signals.

--- MENUS --- 

FILE: 
Includes load patch, save patch and to exit the program.
* The patches can have any extensions and can be saved and loaded from anywhere in your computer, network or external drives.
* Since there is a difference between the voice and drum sets, The drum patches cannot be loaded when a voice patch is selected on the synthesizer, and vice-versa.
* The drum presets in the SY55 are limited to the programs number 63 and 64.
* When editing a drum set, most of the parameters will change.

PATCH:
Request current patch: Loads the SY55 edit buffer into the software controls.
Request on start: When this option is active, is marked with a (*), and the patch is requested everytime the software starts.
Initialize patch: Reset the patch loading the default values.

ELEMENT:
This menu has the actions to copy, paste and initialize an element to the default values. 
* This menus are not available in drum set mode.

MIDI:
Reset midi configuration: Resets the stored midi controllers info. and reads all the midi inputs and outputs.
Reset midi device: Reset the current midi input and output.
Midi input: Set up a midi input
Midi output: Set up a midi output
* When a midi input / output is selected, it is saved on the preferences and will be loaded everytime the software starts, unless another input / output is selected.

HELP: This menu.

--- CREDITS ---
Programming and testing: Carlo Bandini, 2024.
carlobandini@gmail.com